Reviewer 4 of RO-MAN 2024 submission 70

Comments to the author
======================

The reviewed paper aims to evaluate how knowledge of an
incident’s context affects a drone operator’s effectiveness
in a missing person search as well as their cognitive load
and behavior. A controlled experiment is run where the
subject incrementally has access to prior knowledge of the
missing person, terrain, and the distribution of a swarm of
drones. During each trial, data is recorded on the user’s
operating behavior including time to find the person and
turn rate. There are also detailed physiological measures
that aim to measure the cognitive workload and perceptive
dwell time. 
The overall methodology and presentation of results are
sound and it’s clear that substantial effort was put into
this work. I thought the approach towards collecting
cognitive workload was thorough in its use of EEG
collection and survey responses. There is a good level of
detail presenting differences in the set of results across
experimental conditions. The results could have been
improved with more presentation of the actual trajectories
flown and if any specific behaviors are elucidated. 
The biggest weaknesses that this paper presents is the
divergence in applicability towards real world problems as
presented in the authors fundamental research questions.
The first research question asks whether more knowledge of
context leads to better search performance. Any
practitioner of search and rescue can give a resounding
“YES!” to this question, which is why this information is
always contained in a standard briefing, as would be done
in this type of search mission. While large scale disaster
response incidents may lead to the operator having more
uncertainty about the terrain, they would still leverage
geographical knowledge to the best of their ability. The
authors also improperly calculate their predicted missing
person radii given the reported 36 hours of disappearance
to a maximum distance of 1.08km. 
The second research question aims to consider operator
responses to other drones operating in the area, which may
have some merit. However, there is no information provided
to the operator as to how the other drones are coordinating
their search operations. Any incident of this nature would
have all aircraft operators being coordinated through a
central Air Operations supervisor to define airspace
delineations and responsibilities. Without any knowledge of
the other drones’ operations these assets seem to act as
distractors, and I don’t see how operator performance is
relevant.
Finally, the third research question considers how prior
knowledge affects cognitive factors. The approach towards
answering this question is thorough although other relevant
works that address similar questions are not sufficiently
referenced (E.g. Britton  et al. “Effects of prior
knowledge on use of cognitive capacity in three complex
cognitive tasks,” 1982, Innes et al., “The effects of
increased visual information on cognitive workload in a
helicopter simulation,” 2021.) While measuring cognitive
load is a substantial area of ongoing research,
unfortunately the context around which they aim to evaluate
it (availability of prior knowledge) does not present any
fundamental contributions. 
