Reviewer 2 of RO-MAN 2024 submission 70

Comments to the author
======================

Review: Effect of prior knowledge and swarm perception on
robot teleoperation during missing person search in a large
virtual park

Summary
The authors set up a simulation system to test the behavior
of a UAV operator in a search-and-rescue scenario involving
a swarm of UAV's. They conducted an experiment examining
the effects of prior knowledge about the missing person,
prior knowledge of terrain features, and the distribution
of other UAV's in the swarm. EEG and gaze tracking were
used to evaluate aspects of the operator's performance.

As a reader, the motivation behind this study was unclear
to me, and the results were not clearly presented, so I was
not sure what learnings I was meant to take away.


Strengths
+ The Search-and-Rescue problem space is an important area
of research with a great potential for real-world impact

+ The authors seem to have put great effort into setting up
a very sophisticated system for running useful experiments,
both on the simulation side and on the measurement side.


Weaknesses
- The paper is not motivated well. It is not clear what the
experimenters expected to learn from the experiment, and it
is not clear why the reported observations are important. 
For example, what is the significance of the finding that
cognitive load and gaze fixation time on an overhead view
are affected by terrain knowledge?  Is this good or bad? 
Are the findings suggesting that it is more important to
give the teleoperators terrain knowledge ahead of time, or
is there maybe some suggestion about how to improve
graphical interfaces for UAV operators?  I did not
understand the purpose of this study from the beginning and
did not understand the value of the findings at the end.

- Novelty of this work is questionable. The authors cite
studies such as [12, 13] which have already demonstrated
the importance of prior knowledge of the person and
terrain, so what does the current study contribute beyond
this? Maybe in some way this is meant as a replication
study, but this is not stated in the paper.  Similarly with
the UAV positioning, the authors cite [16], so what does
this paper contribute beyond that?

- Soundness of the findings are questionable due to what
appear to be oversimplifications.  
-- User modeling
The modeling of the movement of the user appears not to be
sophisticated.	To my understanding there is already
substantial work modeling how people move when lost
according to terrain, availability of water, and so on. 
This model seems to only use random placement.	Also, the
walking speeds of 1,2,3 m/s seem unusual for a person lost
in the wilderness - 3 m/s is a running speed. It is also
unclear why 3 m/s applied over 36 hours would only result
in a radius of 1.08km.	If these numbers are grounded in
any research, the authors should cite it. As presented, it
seems like a simplified game, and it is unclear to what
extent these results will apply to real situations.  

-- Swarm distribution
The swarm distribution part of the experiment was very
confusing to me.  As I understood the paper, the swarm was
either evenly distributed or clustered at a random point
unrelated to the missing person's location. This seems
meaningless to me if it is not based on actual swarm search
dynamics.  The finding that this influenced mission
performance seems like it is probably spurious.

-- Terrain knowledge
The movement logic used for the missing person is not
adequately described, so I was unable to understand why
terrain knowledge would be relevant.  Certainly the
challenge of mentally visualizing the locations of trails
not shown on the display would be difficult for operators,
but it was unclear to me whether knowledge of trail
locations would help the search effort in this scenario.